README.md, before:

# Hexgen

![Satellite Map](http://i.imgur.com/ekkaWgkl.png)

## What is this?
It's a world map generator written in Python. It generates a random world map represented in a hexagon grid. The parameters for the generator allow for any kind of planet surface to be generated. It also can segment the surface into randomly sized globs called territories.

## Why?
I'm using this as a board for a browser-based game I am working on. It can be used for anything from DnD campaigns to open-source games or even just for fun.


## How to use

### Export types
The primary export of Hexgen is a data structure that represents the world map. It can also export a bunch of png files that show various features on the map.

One interesting thing it can do is take all the data about a hexagon and determine its true color. As exported as an image, the entire grid taken as a whole can be thought of as a satellite image.

### Hexagon types:
- land: defined as a solid surface
- water: define as a liquid surface

### Hexagon properties
- altitude (int, 0 - 255)
- temperature (celsius)
- moisture (int): water content
- fertility: soil fertility
- feature
    - lake
    - crater
    - volcano


### Parameters
- Required parameters
    - size (int): World map size in hexagons. This defines the width and height of the hexagon grid.
    - avg_temp (celsius): average surface temperature of this planet
- General parameters (required):
    - roughness (int, 0 - 10): used by the diamond-square algorithm to determine the roughness of the terrain.
    - axial_tilt (int, -90 - 90): This world's axial tilt. Has a huge impact on temperature variations.
    - land_percent (int, 0 - 100): Percent of surface that is land
    - hydrosphere (bool): whether the world has surface hydrosphere
    - ocean_type (OceanType): composition of the ocean. Can be water, hydrocarbons, magma

- Surface features (optional):
    - aquifer_max (int): maximum number of aquifers to place underground
    - river_max (int): maximum number of rivers to place on the map
    - crater_max (int): maximum number of craters to place on the surface
    - volcano_max (int): maximum number of volanoes to place on the surface
    - make_lakes (bool): Put lakes on hexes with 4 or more river segments

- Territories (optional):
    - make_territories (bool): whether to generate territories
    - land_only (bool): if True, territories will only exist on land
    - separate_zones (bool): if True, territories will never leave their zones
    - merge_islands (bool): if True, unclaimed islands will be given to the nearest territory
    - merge_small (bool): if True, small territories will be merged with their neighbors

- Exporting:
    - export_type (string, one of "png", "json")
    - png export:
        - draw_borders: (bool): Draw borders between territories and on coastlines

Commit message:

Add install instructions to README

README.md, after:

# Hexgen

![Satellite Map](http://i.imgur.com/ekkaWgkl.png)

## What is this?
It's a world map generator written in Python. It generates a random world map represented in a hexagon grid. The parameters for the generator allow for any kind of planet surface to be generated. It also can segment the surface into randomly sized globs called territories.

## Why?
I'm using this as a board for a browser-based game I am working on. It can be used for anything from DnD campaigns to open-source games or even just for fun.


## Requirements
* [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-350/)
* [Pillow 2.8.2](http://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.2.x/installation.html)

It's recommended to use [virtualenv](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv) and [virtualenvwrapper](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html) to keep the dependencies of this project separate from those that are installed globally on your system. With virtualenvwrapper, you can install this project with the following:

    mkvirtualenv hexgen -p python3
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Tip: Installing Pillow through pip requires the python header files. You can install those on Debian/Ubuntu with `sudo apt-get install python3-dev`.

To test your installation, run the unit tests:

    ./test

If everything is working, it should report back "OK".

## How to use

### Export types
The primary export of Hexgen is a data structure that represents the world map. It can also export a bunch of png files that show various features on the map.

One interesting thing it can do is take all the data about a hexagon and determine its true color. As exported as an image, the entire grid taken as a whole can be thought of as a satellite image.

### Hexagon types:
- land: defined as a solid surface
- water: define as a liquid surface

### Hexagon properties
- altitude (int, 0 - 255)
- temperature (celsius)
- moisture (int): water content
- fertility: soil fertility
- feature
    - lake
    - crater
    - volcano


### Parameters
- Required parameters
    - size (int): World map size in hexagons. This defines the width and height of the hexagon grid.
    - avg_temp (celsius): average surface temperature of this planet
- General parameters (required):
    - roughness (int, 0 - 10): used by the diamond-square algorithm to determine the roughness of the terrain.
    - axial_tilt (int, -90 - 90): This world's axial tilt. Has a huge impact on temperature variations.
    - land_percent (int, 0 - 100): Percent of surface that is land
    - hydrosphere (bool): whether the world has surface hydrosphere
    - ocean_type (OceanType): composition of the ocean. Can be water, hydrocarbons, magma

- Surface features (optional):
    - aquifer_max (int): maximum number of aquifers to place underground
    - river_max (int): maximum number of rivers to place on the map
    - crater_max (int): maximum number of craters to place on the surface
    - volcano_max (int): maximum number of volanoes to place on the surface
    - make_lakes (bool): Put lakes on hexes with 4 or more river segments

- Territories (optional):
    - make_territories (bool): whether to generate territories
    - land_only (bool): if True, territories will only exist on land
    - separate_zones (bool): if True, territories will never leave their zones
    - merge_islands (bool): if True, unclaimed islands will be given to the nearest territory
    - merge_small (bool): if True, small territories will be merged with their neighbors

- Exporting:
    - export_type (string, one of "png", "json")
    - png export:
        - draw_borders: (bool): Draw borders between territories and on coastlines
